Question 1: Cloud Access Control
How would you control access to a cloud network?
With NSG and SSH protocols.

Restate the Problem
A company would like cloud networking, and you would like to know how I would secure it by providing examples.

Provide a Concrete Example Scenario

In Project 1, did you deploy an on-premises or cloud network? 
I deployed a cloud network using Azure.
Did you have to configure access controls to this network? 
I configured access controls by disabling most ports and only allowing access to admin through SSH.
What kinds of access controls did you configure, and why were they necessary? 
You want to have a secure network so that only admin can remote access securely through SSH protect the valuables.
How do these details relate to the interview question? 
This shows how to build a cloud network with controled access through firewalls, port security, load balancers , containers, as well as monitoring files and metrics with an Elk container using Filebeat and Metricbeat on Kibana.



Explain the Solution Requirements


In Project 1, what kinds of access controls did you have to implement? Consider:
NSGs around the VNet? Around the VMs? \
We created a Jumpbox VM, protected by Network Security Group 1, in order for the Jumpbox VM, which hosts ansible, to maintain security for setting up Web 1 and Web 2 containers. We also put a firewall at SSH point of entry to the Elk container to provide add security and monitoring.
Local firewalls (ufw, etc.) on each VM? 
Network Security Group 1
Protocol allow/deny lists? 
The only access to the network is through whitelisted home public IP.  

What did each access control achieve, and why was this restriction necessary for the project?
By only allowing access through a whitelisted IP and by using firewalls and monitoring the network, I created a secure and scalable network.



Explain the Solution Details

Which rules do you set for each NSG in the network? .  
Close all access ports besides 80 http and 22 ssh for Jumpbox.
Close all access ports on Elk and nsg beside  22 ssh and 5601.   

How does access to the jump box work? 
You have to SSH using a public key on port 22 only, which only allows access from my home public IP. So if I was an admin working remotley this would be ideal.

How does access from the jump box to the web servers work? 
The Jumpbox private ip 10.0.0.4 is authorized to ssh over port 22 to both Web 1 and Web 2 private IP.



Identify Advantages/Disadvantages of the Solution

Does your solution scale? 
yes because when you use playbook to setup servers, you can always add additional servers.

Is there a better solution than a jump box? 
VPN could be more secure. 

What are the disadvantages of implementing a VPN that kept you from doing it this time? 
It doesn't allow for remote access and it is not as scalable 

What are the advantages of a VPN?
Offers the most secure network.

When is it appropriate to use a VPN?
